// JS -

    1. scripting lang / prog lang
    2. dynam typ
    3. bren eich -1995
    4. mocha - livespript - js
    5. ECMASCRIPT 2026
    6. init -> browser / fe -> engines
            -> be -> nodeJS -> runtime env used to run js outside the browser
    7. variable - named container used to store values -> var let const
    8. scope -> block , functional , global





length -> to find number of elements in an array
push -> add a new element to last index
pop-> to remove element in last index
unshift-> to add an element to first index
map -> do operation and return in a new array
filter-> do comparision and return the element in a new array
some -> condition satifyig elements only
find -> condition staisfying first element
every -> to check if the all elemtnts satisfy condition
reduce -> to reduce to a single value (sum,pro)
toSorted -> sort and display in a new array
sort -> to sort an existig array
includes -> Checks whether an element exists
// Join -> Converts an array into a string using a separator.
// indexOf -> Finds the index/position of an element.
// slice -> Extracts a portion of an array without changing the original array. Reverse direction is also possible



rest -> the rest operaror(...) in JS collects multiple elements or properties and condenses them into a single array or object


spread -> The JS Spread Operator(...) unpacks or expands elements of an iterable (like an array or string) or properties of an object into individual pieces

dot notation - bracket not



OOP - OBJECT ORIENTED PROGAMMING ( programming paradigm that emphasizes the use of "objects" to oraganize and structure code )

1. Class - blueprint of the object , tells what are the properties(data) and methods(operations) . It has properties and methods

2. Object - real world entity of the class



Day 21


Abstraction is the process of simplifying complex systems by breaking them into smaller manageable part by hiding all the unnecessary detail from the outer world.

Encapsulation means wrapping up of data and components into a single unit or it can be said as the bundiling of data and methods together within a class

Inheritance allows a class(called subclass or child class) to inherit properties and methods from another class(called superclass or parent class)

Polymorphism allows objects of different classes to be treated as a object of a common superclass or viceversa.



Day 22

Types of Errors

1.Syntax Error - wrong syntax
2.Reference Error - variable or functions doesn't exist
3.Type Error - wrong type or invalid operation
4.Range Error - value outside desired range
5.Logical Error - occur by the user in differ of code logic used such as used addition instead of subtraction



The try...catch...finally statement in JavaScript handles runtime errors, preventing applications from crashing.

try block: Tests a block of code for errors. 
catch block: Executes if an error occurs within the try block. 
finally block: Always executes after try and catch, regardless of the outcome.






The Document Object Model (DOM) connects web pages to scripts or programming languages by representing the structure of a document.
The DOM represents a document with a logical tree. Each branch of the tree ends in a node, and each node contains objects. DOM methods allow programmatic access to the tree. With them, you can change the document's structure, style, or content.




Events in JS are actions or occurences that happen in the browser-such as a user clicking a button, a page finsihing its loading process, or a user pressing a key. The browser fires a signal when these events occur, allowing you to execute specific JS code in response.

    1.mouse events
    2.key events
    3.touch events


 
 ->  DOM Methods

 The JS Document Object Model (DOM) methods are built-in functions that allow you to select,create,modify,and delete HTML elements automatically

 1.document.getElementsByTagName
 2.document.getElementsByClassName
 3.document.getElementById
 4.document.querySelector(selector) -> to select only first occurence
 5.doc.querySelectorAll(selector) -> to select all occurences





